
tldr;

I'm gonna use save points and events which are located in certain places to plan where events are and in what order players see things. so each time I 
think about adding an event, I should think about where the player will start, where they'll go, what will happen, then what will happen after.
Those things need to be short enough so that the play sessions arent too long. but they need to have a firm beginning and end so that I can plan each event.
i could technically use a more lose save system from menu that allows you to save/quit from anywhere, but that would chop up story events in a weird way. so no.





comfort

conflict

win or lose

reset


i mean its basic. but thats what its gonna be. 

I think I'm just trying to think in terms of like. what exactly is the player going to be doing from start to finish per "play session".


with an open world thing like this, its going to be exploration mostly, right?

I don't know if I'm going to do much with "save points", at least for this demo.

maybe at major locations, like the dungeons. like links awakening, maybe "at doors" or something.

anyways, considering if you always start in your house, which is probably going to be how it is, at least at first.

the cycle is gonna be that you explore a bit, find some things, then close the game. maybe on a death.

I don't really know what the end point would be though.

obviously deaths. but I don't want the player to have to play forever just cause they never die.

i just don't really like the idea of save points cause its not like  theres really anywhere thats that far.

so it feels kind of tacky to have them. so ill have few if any.

maybe one at the dungeon, at the mountain, then somewhere near the left top.

anyways, the gameplay cycle is going to go something like this:


player explores, finds things, experiences events

either dies, or manually saves and quits.

I think the main thing im grappling with is theres a natural need to save and quit.

and having that in the pause menu isn't quite satisfying for whatever. I think its something about the fact that its not going to save your exact location.

anyways its just a little less tacky, and a little more definite and memorable/satisfying for the player.

or else they're gonna have to wonder "oh no, how far back will i go if i quit from menu?"

games that have a menu quit usually have a collection of near exact save states for it, or something like that

the old snes rpgs usually have like 3 files, and they're all accessed by save point. I think it just makes more sense like that.

it also limits the amount of possibilities i have to consider when writing the story/events.

cause I know that once they leave a certain event, then I can program everything else in the world to be reactive to that.

its less 


you know actually? I think I COULD do a more exact save system.

I just really don't like it.

i wonder why? it just feels really tacky i think.

i mean if they can save anywhere, its like. they might experience story events in a weird order?

in undertale, it felt like the save points were placed strategically so that he could tell the story in between them.

like chapters. so if I have some "return points" I can place events in between them so that the player experiences stuff in the order I expect, in the 

way I expect. anyways, it lets me have finer control of the players experience. Its just that if I do that, I have to be careful to design the game in digestible portions.

I think undertale was designed in like. 15 minute chunks? or so?

letting the player quit whenever means that certain story events wont be experienced in the right way/order.

or they'll do something, then forget about it, then a thing will happen which they wont remember.

anyways,














































