tldr
the gameplay cycle will be especially important in demostrating the theme of "resolve", however that manifests.
which is obvious considering it represents the exact moment the player is most likely to be thinking about "giving up"/persisting
went on a tangent about the way that art can affect people etc... 
but the gameplay cycle will be pivotal in the way that things are organized for the player to experience it.




theres going to probably be a cycle of feeling different things.

like,


comfort
excitement
danger
victory/defeat
repeat

whether you win or lose, the cycle will probably be the same.
I guess all writing is gonna be that way, at least in classic game stuff.
I guess I'm sort of approaching the idea of how writing actually changes people, provides feeling, and what the entire point
of it is at all.
I'd say in my experience, it pits you against things, and forces you to consider them. cause its hard to grasp things unless you
experience them "for yourself". the way art is distinct from upon psychology in that respect is that it aims to actually make you feel the things
that its trying to teach you about. its less about literally understanding it, and more about getting the person to feel it.
then you are "there", so you can "really experience" it. even if its not real, you know how you'll feel when the situation does arise in real life.
it gives you the opportunity to struggle with those things before they occur in your life, so you're prepared when they do.
I guess it can also help you cope with things that have happened, by making those things resurface, then helpin to fix them.
i guess itd be ideal if people had those experiences through real life rather than through games and art. but the reality of the world is that
those things don't always reveal themselves so convieniently in everyones lives. I know a fair amount of people who strongly feel as if they've 
had their life "changed" by art. A feeling of being "woken up", or "saved". I've experienced it, and now I feel that way as well.
i guess what I'm trying to say is. um. I actually don't know. but that art can change people? 

anyways, the way that connects to the "gameplay cycle" is that you can order emotions to be felt in a certain order.
you do one thing then do another. in a strangely real sense, you're "training" people to feel those emotions.
first comfort, then excitement and danger. you feel the struggle against something. from there you can either "win or lose"





what exactly "victory and defeat mean"