the story structure is simple hero and evil. its classic. just a normal thing.
how can I use certain plot devices to make the hero feel accomplished without being tropey?
make the story genuinely cool.

I think for now, I should focus on having as strong of a start as possible. I mean the thing should be good the whole way.
But first impressions and stuff. I need to start creating things, like illustrations, music, little events that are a part 
of the story and world. It's important that each component is enjoyable, not just an excuse for content.
so. what do I do?
	
	a "legend" is a cool way to introduce the world, and foreshadow specific events,
	but only if its well done. make the telling of it cool, and have the setup of the writing
	be good. and for the love of god keep it short
	
	
	condensed
	
	In the peaceful land of Ordela, there is a great evil:
		Onos. An embodiment of evil who exists to gather strength and rule.
	He was sealed away by a hero ages ago, returning peace to the land.
	The people fear that he may one day break the seal and return.
	But, the legends also tell of a hero, who will always rise to
	protect the world from this evil.
	
	this story takes place in the kingdom of Ordela.
	the hero, flea, embarks on a quest to save the kingdom from a great evil:
	Onos. an incarnation of evil and malice. representative of the pursuit of power.
	flea must go to each god of light, and gather strength from them after passing their tests
	in order to gain the strength to seal Onos.
	
	The three gods of the world who give you power:
	Amarant - god of light and dark
	Etris - god of soul
	Ilia - god of earth
	
	The minions of Onos have been sent to each of the gods holy places to weaken the light.
	you must purge each of the great dark beasts sent by Onos:
		Rhomaos - beast of lightning, an eagle with charged feathers.
		Imos - beast of fire, a lion with a flaming mane
		Iasis - beast of ice, an ice breathing dragon
	
	so how does the story begin?
	what do I want the overall tone of the story to be?
	sort of dreamy and comforting? i think so.
	
	I'd like a sort of warm dream. he wakes up at home.
	
	someone is waking him up, or calling to him from outside.
	
	the initial encounters should be sort of nice. nothing too evil happening.
	just a normal day kind of thing.
	
	like hey come with me to... the what?
	
	so who is this person? little monster kid?
	
	hey flea! come on already, lets get to town, they're gonna sell the slingshot today!
	you've got the money we saved up right? don't forget it!
	
	
	the first beast is rhomaos.
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
