just going to freewrite for a bit. I think its been a while since i did.

yeah, I got that feeling then of having too much to think about and trying to work on things in a more modular way.

which, like. obviously.

but for the story. how would I do that?

I guess I'd like to combine it with the project files if possible. but the sensibilities for writing and game dev are very different.
It'd probably be best to do both?
well... hm. what kind of things am I going to make that represent the story?
text files. music. drawings. sprites. if theres something else id be surprised.
anyways. I need some kind of system to organize those things. even if they're a bit silly.
I think that the way i organized stuff for claude is good, but it was very art directed.
so i need to figure out the best way to organize things for myself.
I want to avoid too heavily relying on an organizational system. cause then it wont be in my head as much.
but i also want to avoid the stress of cramming everything in my head. and if I'm able to take advantage of a good organizational
system, it could increase my efficiency by a lot.

so. like I was thinking, everything could be tied together by concept. probably starting with the game as a whole.
but when it comes to webs of connections, theres lots of ways to organize things

physical locations - where does the character live? what location are they associated with?

group affiliatons - what organizations do they belong to?

social connections - who do they know? what other characters do they have a relationship with?

theming - what sort of concepts/feelings area they associated with?

shared/conflicting goals - what are the characters goals, and how do they conflict/align? how are the characters connected through that goal?

events/history - what has happened in the world? how do the characters shared knowledge of events shape the world?

so I think thats enough for now. i can list more as I come up with them. in any case, there are a lot of lenses to view the world through,
and different purposes for each kind. if I'm going to create a world like this, viewing it through all of these different lenses,
I have to have ways to track each characters connections to each thing, as well as how each character connects to everything else.
i think I'll have to create separate files for each of them










