yeah, its time.

cause I have all of the basic pieces, right?

story is the next piece.

and also the piece I have the least experience with.

hmmm.

I guess I should approach it with the same modular approach as the code.

which I've sort of already been doing...

but its not quite habit yet.

the only real story bits I have so far are that its boy and girl dreaming, and there are a bunch of weird creatures in

the dream, some friendly some not.

so what are the goals and themes?

are they trying to wake up? is there something they want to "solve" in the dream?

probably a combination of both.

whats the real world? are the characters going to be defined by that?

i think the only ideas that will really persist are that they are friends of some kind in the real world.

but whats the nature of the sleep? I think it just needs to match the feeling of the piece.

I remember that I didn't want the dream to be too malicious/edgy. like no "the kid is in a coma", or "its a government experiment"
type of guilt tripping bullshit.

I more just want a pleasant dream adventure. Sure there might be a sort of scary themed thing like a "nightmare", but it shouldn't
try too hard to be super dark and edgy. although, I think there should still be some kind of stakes.

obviously its not much of an adventure if there isn't some kind of threat. I think  good compromise would be that there is some
sort of emotional piece of the characters mind at stake.

like if they don't win, the child will lose his sense of wonder, or something. I suppose the "nightmare" could refer to some sort of
fear. which is cliche but thats ok.

I think it should refer to some magical force rather than to his anxiety or something. I really hate that trope. like oh the monsters represent
his mental illness etc etc.

its a little too much of a cheap shot. like oh look how sad it is hes ill. I'd rather have it covered in a layer of secrecy or two at least.


so I think the proto idea is that:

its a shared dream between the two of them.
the "nightmare" is some sort of magical demon that eats dreams or happiness or hope or something.
the demon was attracted to them because they are good friends, and he wants to eat their friendship.
So I guess its their friendship on the line.


_____

so do I like that concept?

I think so. again, its a little undefined, so it has the potential to be sort of unrefined if I'm not careful.

But I think it works. so whats the next step?

what are the actual events? I guess I just need to start asking questions.

so i think the beginning of the story makes sense. just send the player on a little initial fetch quest. like oh deliver this thing.

obviously there needs to be some direction. on the way there they should get a couple hints of things to come later, some entertaining things.

so thats the intro. but before I decide on what exactly that is, I'll do some more world building kind of music n stuff.

so. start asking questions.

what do the characters remember from before?

nothing probably.

when is the player inserted?

I'm thinking that the world and pretty much all of the characters existed before him, and he comes in.

most relatable to the player that way. same purpose as a memory loss gimmick. gives a good narrative push to show the player 

around the world. the main character would have the same drive to explore and learn. you don't have so many of those 

"dont you remember mc?? its your birthday!" kind of things. little bit more cohesive with what the player is doing/asking/learning about.


okay, summarize.

the initial event will be a fetch quest to go see someone.

well no, thats not really necessary. and I'll have to change the beginning if hes going to be a new introduction into the world.

so how does he get there? and where does the story begin? I honestly dont think itd be too bad to use the washed up onshore and taken to room by villagers 

thing from links awakening. its going to be pretty obvious that the whole thing is LA inspired anyways. black and white, legend of zelda.

also, if they're new to the world, then their memories don't matter, as they don't apply to the place they are in.



they should get a brief direction though very quickly. links awakening had that with the owl. showed up when link got the shield and said "go north + wind fish"
and whatever. again i need a lot more world building before that.

whats the goal right? to:

wake up

defeat dream demon

befriend dream demon

do i want "multiple endings" and all that?

hmm. maybe. anyways I need some sort of machination for waking up. and the nature of the world as created by the dream demon.

how long has it been there? what do the inhabitants know/remember?

considering I don't want it to be too edgy and stuff, I should have some sort of history. 

the inhabitants believe that they've been there "forever". the nature of the place is unknown to them.

they're not really too dead set on "figuring things out" though. 

most of them are blissfully unaware/content to live in the place they are in.

I'm not sure how they would feel about you ending the dream.

I'm sure though, that on the whole, the general feeling among them should be that they all care about "the two",
and they know that they need to wake up.

are the other dream beings conscious? are they real? hm. I think so. although most of them aren't super intelligent.

they're more like monsters/animals/creatures than people.

so whats the cycle? whats the drive to take action?

mystery/learning about the world, to wake up, to help the other characters "reach the end"

obviously everything should be fun and cool. which should naturally drive the interest in the rest of the world.

the "main goal" is to wake up and defeat the dream demon/possibly befriend him.

i don't even technically need to have an intro sequence. overall, eventually, the players going to get dropped into the world and be able to explore it.

anyways! the goal is to wake up. if the "dungeons" are connected to that, that would be mega convienient.

I think the most inline with the gameplay would be either to defeat all of the dream beasts, or to collect treasures that happen to be at the dungeons.

then you can fight the final guy. theres really only so many ways you can structure something like this...

anyways. so the "demo" will be a small piece of the island. there'll be like one dungeon, a couple story events. other things to explore/learn about around the island.

basically just show that there is a little bit of a story written, the mechanics basically work and that I'm actually capable of making the entire thing.

how do I sum all of that up?

what kind of things can I add to the world that will actually be fun/revealing to find?

also on theme.

well ok ok wait. whats the MAIN LINE STUFF. what do I actually need to do to make the main bit playable?



player wakes up. 

meets important characters.

finds out that the dungeon is somehow important to leaving the island(or is at least directed towards it generally)

player beats the dungeon, and some major piece of the plot is revealed.

BAM! KOHOMA! thats the hook.










**i should play more links awakening btw.






































