
ok. im finally at somewhat of an end stage.
the overworld patterns are! instantiated. I do actually have to finish/steamroll/polish them.
but all of the stuff is basically made for them.
now the DUNGEON is in a rough place. it still needs a LOT of work.

buuuut. i don't think that should be too awful. only deal is that I'll likely have to have items for it.
which. is a pain. I guess the initial idea was fishing rod, and shapeshifting.
but I kind of want an interesting ability.
and a fishing rod is... not interesting. to me.
so. what then?
it really doesn't have to be super deep. just. something! remember, this is a self improvement project, so I'm kind of purposely
with holding my "better" mechanics ideas in terms of narrative. right now, I'm using this project to improve "basic" mechanics.
like reproduced stuff. swinging the sword, using various items, animations, sprite work. this is mostly just a "reproduction".
I'm using to reaaaally get in touch with how to have these systems work together.

so I guess when i get home I'll just keep working on the dungeon mechanisms, some kind of boss fight.
once thats finished I'll start adding some events in the overworld. I assume that will come hand in hand with making various 
improvements to the event/dialogue/ other systems. also writing music, spritework, story, characters, etc.

I'm happy with this so far!



what to do?
	
	world enemy patterns
	dungeon design/enemy patterns
	enemy movement scripts
	enemy spawning scripts
	music and sound effects
	items and interaction types
	dungeon interaction
	story writing
	world secrets
	inventory and item recieving
	spriting and tileset art
	general code revision
	project file organization


random things from zelda

enemy pattern change in certain places on certain story/event triggers
enemy behavior changes in response to different items/being attacked
varying enemy parameters on spawn
places of interest, shops, fairy fountains, etc.
map "disconnects" paths that don't connect with the rest of the map for a long time
spawn patterns connected to player position/item selection
enemy spawns after initial level load
attacks affecting inventory, file, things other than health
change drops based on player info, like no hearts when full health
enemy drop rate items, like heart up, or rupee up etc.

random thoughts

reactions to "sound"
break a pot and an enemy will move, step on creaky tile etc.


I kind of want to figure out what parts of the enemy movement are reproducible, that way I can reuse what is, and only write unique code for what isn't.

was thinking about the pallete swap thing, but:
	
	I don't think I'll have so many pallettes that it'll be undoable to swap things by making multiple sets
	its in the future so maybe postpone that decision
	how hard is it really to do in engine?
	it seems like it would be a pain. itd probably be better to just make unique tilesets.
	that'll be something I do later in development though. like as a finishing touch.

would it be a good idea to have a basic drag and drop wall thing?
like some object that has four walls and does basic wall checking using basic signals?
I think I've done enough to know what that would be. so many enemies use such a similar kind of thing i could probably make it now.





